# Crested-Wheatgrass-Cover
Crested Wheatgrass cover values in response to two-years of short duration high-intensity grazing
Introduction
Crested Wheatgrass is a cool-season perennial grass introduced to the North American plains around the turn of the twentieth century. Initially used as a viable grazing alternative to native grasses, crested wheatgrass proved useful in preventing soil erosion, and by the mid-twentieth century gained popularity in restoration projects. Crested wheatgrass proved fast-growing, easy to establish, and hearty lending to ranchers and farmers alike seeding millions of acres across the plains in this perennial grass. Today we are left with this legacy and the plains ecosystem is largely described by scientists as depleated of diversity due to the monotypic habitat created by creasted wheatgrass. To address this issue, we propose a way to convert monotypic creasted wheatgrass habitats to more diverse native plantings with a goal of creating heterogeneity in a previousmy homogenous site.
Experiment
Crested Wheatgrass is notoriously difficult to kill making a transition to different plant communities difficult. We hypothesized that several years of high-intensity short-duration grazing times with specific phenological stages will reduce creasted wheatgrass vigor and make subsequent spraying and seeding treatments more effective. Over the course of two years (2018 & 2019) at four sites across Montana we applied intesive grazing. The sites are approximately 35 acres and we grazed them three times during thing season, once in mid-May, once in late-June, and then again in mid-September. We collected cover data once prior to the mid-may grazing and then again post mid-September grazing. The data displays changes in crested wheatgrass cover post two years of intensive grazing.  
